President Young in his address to the Saints remarked that he was determined
to have order in all things and righteousness should be practiced in [42] this
land that we had come here according to the direction and counsel of Bro.
Joseph Smith before his death and that he would still have been alive if the
Twelve had been in Nauvoo when he recrossed the river from Montrose to Nauvoo.
He spoke of the Saints being driven from place to place, and said the only way
Boggs, Clark, Lucas, Benton, and all the leaders of the mob could have been
saved in the day of the Lord Jesus would have been to have come forward
voluntarily and let their head been cut off and let their blood run upon the
ground and gone up as a smoking incense before the heavens as an atonement but
now they will be eternally damned. Also said all the governors--and presidents
of the U.S.A. had rejected all our petitions from first to last, that when the
Saints were driven from Illinois and perished as it were on the prairies, then
President Polk sends for a draft of 500 men to go into the Army. What for?
That they might be wasted entirely wasted away as a people. If the brethren
had not gone, they would have made war upon us and the Governor of Missouri
would have been ordered not to have let us cross the Missouri and the raising
of the battalion was our temporal salvation at the time and said Polk would be
damned for this act and that he with many of the government men had a hand in
the death of Joseph and Hyrum and that they should be damned for these things
and if they ever sent any men to interfere with us here, they shall have their
throats cut and sent to hell, and with uplifted hands to Heaven swore by the
Gods of Eternity that He would never cease His exhortation while he lived to
make every preparation and avenge blood of the Prophets and Saints, that he
intended to have every hole and corner from the Bay of Francisco to Hudson Bay
known to us and that our people would be connected with every tribe of Indians
throughout America and that our people would yet take their [43] squaws, wash
and dress them up, teach them our language and teach them to labor and teach
them the gospel of their forefathers and raise up children by them and teach
the children and not many generations hence they will become a white and
delightsome people and in no other way will it be done and that the time was
nigh at hand when the gospel must go to that people.

