A Pamphlet has lately made its appearance in Glasgow, published by a member of
our church holding the office of priest, containing 28 pages, headed,
"..."

We are sorry to be under the necessity of occupying our time and pages in
noticing a pamphlet bearing such an introduction, as the production of a
member of the Church of Christ; or that any man, bearing any portion of the
authority of the holy priesthood, should have his mind so much overcome by the
powers of darkness, as to stray so widely from the order and counsel of the
kingdom of God, in presenting for the investigation of the public a heresy so
much opposed to the revelations of God and every principle of holiness.

Our object in the present article will not be so much to refute the heretical
doctrine advanced, as to introduce a portion of the testimony in favour of the
principle of redemption through the blood of Christ, with which the
revelations of God so much abound, in order that our views on the subject may
be rightly understood by all, and that the Saints of God may be prepared to
withstand the assaults of the grand enemy of manâ€™s salvation, as well as to
set the matter for ever at rest in the minds of those who believe in the
revelations of God.

We had fully anticipated that our repeated cautions against individuals
publishing without our sanction, would have been sufficient, and saved us the
trouble of having to recur to the subject again. The neglect of adherence to
this on the part of the author, causes him to forfeit his authority and
standing in the Church of God, until, at least, he has repented of his error.

In our perusal of the pamphlet, we endeavoured to find out the object of the
author, and the only reasonable conclusion we could arrive at was, that it was
a strained attempt on his part at a display of talent and learning, from his
being able to make quotations from history, heathen mythology, and Hebrew. But
it would be far better for a man to be entirely divested of talents, than to
use them in endeavouring to prove the inefficacy of the atonement of Christ,
and striking at the fundamental principle of salvation as he has done.

The author introduces himself to his readers by lamenting because of having
"..."

We would remark that he would have laboured under equal disadvantages, as far
as professors of the religion of heaven were concerned, had he lived
cotemporary with the Messiah himself and his apostles, or at any period,
however remote, subsequent to that time; and that this doctrine was not one of
the many false fabrications or dogmas of men introduced to make void the
designs of God, or lead the minds of the people away "..." but that it was, not only a theme on which the
ancient prophets and servants of God delighted to dwell, but the main spring
of all their hopes, and the source from which they drew strength and support,
when called to pass through trials of an overwhelming nature; to substantiate
which we will make a few quotations from scripture.

