from the 13th until this date nothing of note has transpired since the great
sign in the heavens this day my heart is somewhat sorrowful but feel to trust
in the Lord the god of Jacob I have learned in my travels that man is
treacherous and selfish but few excepted Brother Sidney is a man whom I love
but is not capable of that pure and steadfast love for those who are his
benefactors as should possess the breast of a President of the Church of
Christ this with some other little things such as a selfish and independence
of mind which too often manifest destroys the confidence of those who would
lay down their lives for him but notwithstanding these things he is a very
great and good man a man of great power of words and can gain the friendship
of his hearers very quick he is a man whom god will uphold if he will continue
faithful to his calling O God grant that he may for the Lordâ€™s sake Amen the
man who willeth to do well we should extol his virtues and speak not of his
faults behind his back a man who willfully turneth away from his friend
without a cause is not easily forgiven the kindness of a man should never be
forgotten that person who never forsaketh his trust should ever have the
highest place for regard in our hearts and our love should never fail but
increase more and more and this is my disposition and sentiment etc. Amen
Brother Frederick G. Williams is one of those men in whome I place the
greatest confidence and trust for I have found him ever full of love and
Brotherly kindness he is not a man of many words but is ever winning because
of his constant mind he shall ever have place in my heart and is ever entitled
to my confidence.

