Dear and Beloved, Brother and Sister, Whitney and etc- I take this opportunity
to communicate, some of my feelings, privately at this time, which I want you
three eternally to keep in your own bosoms; for my feelings are so strong for
you since what has passed lately between us, that the time of my absence from
you seems so long, and dreary, that it seems, as if I could not live long in
this way: and if you three would come and see me in this my lonely retreat, it
would afford me great relief, of mind, if those with whom I am allied, do love
me, now is the time to afford me succor, in the days of exile, for you know I
foretold you of these things. I am now at Carlos Grainger’s, just back of
Brother Hyrum’s farm, it is only one mile form town, the nights are very
pleasant indeed, all three of you can come and see me in the fore part of the
night, let Brother Whitney come a little ahead, and knock at the south east
corner of the house at the window; it is next to the cornfield; I have a room
entirely by myself, the whole matter can be attended to with most perfect
safety, I know it is the will of God that you should comfort me now in this
time of affliction, or not at all now is the time or never, but I have no need
of saying any such thing, to you, for I know the goodness of your hearts, and
that you will do the will of the Lord, when it is made known to you; the only
thing to be careful of; is to find out when Emma comes then you cannot be
safe, but when she is not here, there is the most perfect safety: only be
careful to escape observation, as much as possible, I know it is a heroic
undertaking; but so much the greater friendship, and the more joy, when I see
you I will tell you all my plans, I cannot write them on paper, burn this
letter as soon as you read it, keep all locked up in your breasts, my life
depends upon it, one thing I want to see you for is to get the fulness of my
blessings sealed upon our heads, etc. You will pardon me for my earnestness on
this subject when you consider how lonesome I must be, your good feelings know
how to make every allowance for me, I close my letter, I think Emma won’t
come tonight if she don’t, don’t fail to come tonight. I subscribe myself
your most obedient, and affectionate, companion, and friend.

